README for the Tcl/Tk based NDview toolkit for Geomview

Contents
--------
  Description
  Required Packages
  Inbstallation
  History

================================================================================

Description
-----------
This package contains the NDview emodule and the emodules of the
`src/bin/ndutils' directory of the original Geomview distribution.
`emodules' are kind of plugins which extend the functionality of
Geomview (an interactive 3d viewing program). The modules are based on
Tcl/Tk and can be used as a tool-kit for displaying projections of
higher dimensional objects. Geomview is available separately from
Sourceforge. Please see www.geomview.org for more information.

The source code is contained in the directories

./src/NDview/
./src/ndutils/

Further documentation is available through `help' buttons while
running the emodules from within Geomview.

Required Packages
-----------------
You need the Tcl and Tk libraries to compile the modules.  Tcl and Tk
are available from

http://www.tcl.tk/software/

Also, as this is an extension module for Geomview, you need also to
install Geomview; you have to do this first. See

http://www.geomview.org/ (aka http://geomview.sourceforge.net/)

Installation
------------
  Quick
  Local Installation
  Global Installation
  Special Switches

Quick
~~~~~
You have to install the Tcl/Tk libraries and Geomview first;
afterwards you can install this package like you would install any
other GNU autoconf based package. See the file ./INSTALL for generic
installation instructions.

Quick install instructions: if Geomview and the Tcl/Tk libraries were
installed in their default locations, then all you need to do is

./configure --prefix=PREFIX && make install

to configure, compile and install the emodule. This, however, requires
that you have write permissions for `PREFIX/libexec/geomview/' (were
PREFIX defaults to `/usr/local/', if the `--prefix' option has not been
specified).

Local Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To install the emodules locally, run configure with the
`--enable-local-emodule' switch:

./configure --prefix=PREFIX --enable-local-emodule && make install

This still will install the binary under `PREFIX/libexec/geomview/',
but writes the emodule definition into the files

~/.geomview-ndiew
~/.geomview-...

were Geomview will find it. So, for a local installation you would --
perhaps -- do the following:

./configure --prefix=${HOME}/software --enable-local-emodule && make install

This would produce pairs of files

${HOME}/software/libexec/geomview/ndview
${HOME}/.geomview-ndview
${HOME}/software/libexec/geomview/...
${HOME}/.geomview-...
...

The emodule definition files (`.geomview-...') will contain the full
path to the real executables in this case so that nothing more should
be needed to call the emodules from within Geomview.

Global Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Just configure Geomview and gvemod-ndview with the same `--prefix'
option; e.g. `--prefix=/usr'. This should work.

If you run configure with the switch `--enable-geomview-query' then
the installed version of Geomview -- if one is found -- will be
queried for the proper location for the emodule binaries and
definition files. Normally, this should not change anything, only when
Geomview is installed in a strange place.

Consider you had installed Geomview locally in your home-directory
below `${HOME}/Geomview' (by configuring the Geomview package with
`--prefix=${HOME}/Geomview'), and the Tcl/Tk libraries below the
prefix `${HOME}/software/', then you could run configure like follows:

./configure --prefix=${HOME}/software --enable-geomview-query && make install

This would result in auto-detection of the Tcl/Tk libraries and
produce pairs of files

${HOME}/Geomview/libexec/geomview/ndview
${HOME}/Geomview/libexec/geomview/.geomview-ndview
${HOME}/Geomview/libexec/geomview/...
${HOME}/Geomview/libexec/geomview/.geomview-...
...

and again, this should result in a working configuration.

Special Switches
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The configure script features some command line switches to fine-tune
the locations where it searches for needed packages (i.e. Geomview,
XForms, Xpm). Please use `configure --help' to get help about these.

HISTORY
-------
The Geomview project began in the summer of 1988 at the University of
Minnesota's Geometry Center with the work of Pat Hanrahan on a viewing
program called MinneView.  Shortly thereafter Charlie Gunn begin
developing OOGL in conjunction with MinneView.  In 1991 a team of
programmers headed by Mark Phillips, Stuart Levy, and Tamara Munzner
set about developing a revised version of OOGL and a new viewer which
they named Geomview.  In the time since then, many people have
contributed, including (in alphabetical order): Steve Anderson, Rex
Dieter, Celeste Fowler, Claus-Justus Heine, Todd Kaplan, Daniel Krech,
Mario Lopez, Daeron Meyer, Mark Meuer, Steve Robbins, Timothy Rowley,
Nathaniel Thurston, Scott Wisdom, Lloyd Wood and others.

